4:05

slide 4: nice
Slide 5 -- I agree that there is a dichotomy, but you didn't make that
	point in slide 4 -- so I think the transition is something like:

	But this collection is really the union of two very different
	kinds of systems (this is the transition from 4 and then on
	5 you say) We have GDB, which are ... and GPS which are ...

	Here -- emphasize persistence!

	The two ideas here:
	1. Graph databases are persistent
	2. Graph databases contain properties about edges and nodes (example)
	3. Graph processing systems are all about analytics

Slide 6: My thesis statement is:
	We can build a graph database that produces performance comparable
	to graph processing systems when the data fit in main memory.

	Why is this great?
	If the data are big, you still can run everything you want to run
	No more extraction/preprocessing to do analytics


Slide 7:	The left are often writes; the rest are read-mostly

	I think it's worth using that picture to give a peak towards
	the taxonomy of systems:

	As we move from OLTP to Whole graph analytics, we also move
	from writes to read-only

	As you move from writes to read-only, issues of persistence
	become less important.

	And the community has responded by using GDB on the left and
	(for the most part) and GPS on the right

Slide 8
	I think the key idea here is that performance has largely
	been relegated to the analytics domain.

	And then I think you need to tell the story that what this
	means is that you have the whole property graph that does updates,
	then you have to extract the structural graph for the fast
	analytics and in this domain, in-memory representation is the

	--- you are doing a lot of this on Slide 12 ---

	key to fast performance

Slide 10:
	This is where you told the story that I describe in 8 I think

	This may not be a slide but simply makes the point that our goal
	in Flexograph is to realize persistent representations of these
	in-memory structures in a way that will provide outstanding
	analytics in the context of a property graph

13 intro to Flexograph (4:14)

	I might somehow say EdgeKey = ~CSR (sort of a persistent CSR)


17	The key idea of the middle part is all about neighborhoods -- the 
	details are all part of that, so emphasize neighborhoos first;
	then say neighborhoods require 1, 2, 3 ...

	Semantically meaningful graph iteration


19	What in particularly made WT attractive for this project:
	1. Optimized for multi-core (not distribution)
	2. Specifically parallel read performance
	3. Reads never block on writes
	4. Provides both transactions and snapshots
	5. Row and Column store
	6. Low level interface that allows us to experiment with persistent layouts
		that try to mimic Adj-lists, CSR

20	You don't explain that the structure is inherently parallel; we
	partition by nodes and make threads responsible for sets of nodes

21
	I feel like you have to show the detail needed to use raw curors;
	and the more semantically matched interface of the graph iterators

	[I.e., the key idea does not come across well]

4:22 (17 minutes in)

22-23	Introduce these relative to their in-memory counterparts.  That is,
	we are explicitly trying to materialize AdjList and EdgeKey to
	produce performance comparable to GPS, once we've read things into
	memory

	For EdgeKey -- I don't think you need to talk about the val1/val2, but
	focus on the fact that the keys are created to mimic EdgeKey

	The discussion about in- out-neighborhoods was confusing

4:23	Research Questions

	1. Don't we care about representation relative to workload?

	2 and 3 are really the same question right?  Maybe presenting
	these questions as a table 

Eval 26
	I think I would explain that we've done a lot of iterative evaluation
	as Flexograph evolved and we are now in the process of doing a
	large-scale evaluation, but that is work in progress (collaborating
	with Milad to use a good framework to assess dynamic performance)

	This needs ot be a bar chart (perhaps stacked w/preprocessing and alg?)
	Tables are just too difficult to read

	The question is:

	Are we able to achieve close to in-memory performance with a persistent
	GDB-based system?

	[We assume we can do better than a persistent system designed for
	fast analytics -- and we do]

29	You need more story telling here about why it is OK to not have
	done this yet


30	The duplicate vertex IDS is not hypothetical -- introduce this
	in the context of LDBC

	4:29 (at 25 minutes)

31	You pointed to something labeled "Vertex ID Space" and said, "what type
	of edge"

	I think you need to explain this in a more step wise fashion --
	difficult to figure out how the different pictures fit together.

32	THIS IS THE QUESTION:

	Can we support everything we need in a property graph without
	negatively impacting the analystics tasks

34 Timeline 4:32 (Nearing 30 minutes ...)

4:33	DONE
