July 10, 2024

2:02

I love the opening and story telling -- absolutely wonderful opening

Great job of focusing on the "three key points" for each slide.

Slide 7: Just brilliant!

After presenting slide 9: might have been a nice time to ask for questions.

=-=-=-

2:11 Flexograph

--- I'm just super impressed with how smoothly you are delivering this
    achieving a nice balance between key points and conversational discussion

15: Nice transition into the underlying storage system (slide 15)

16: I like "outstanding" over "incredible" -- it's totally believable; it's just
	really good ;-)

2:15 -- slide 16 -- timing is looking really good

Slide 17: Could have said that we try to balance load even though we do
	static vertex partitioning (e.g., we can balance by edge even if
	we are vertex partitioning (hmmmm -- I wonder if we should use 
	Cuttana?  Probably not actually ...)

Slide 20:
	It's not hat we don't need ANY indices.
	We do not have to have any SECONDARY indices, because the
		tables are automatically keyed by a primary key and our
		vertex IDs are just peachy as primary keys.

	In other words, a primary key IS an index; it's just the
	data are stored according to the order of this particular index

23: 2:20 (great timing)

24: "Gathering more data on the latest and greatest version of Flexograph"



Question on slide 24:
	We are comparing out-of-cache to in-memory for GAP-BS (I think)

26: 2:23 
	You called this "future work" but it's kind of already ongoing..

	Nice discussion about identifying the problem


28: Would have been a nice place to talk about how column store should
	improve cache behavior on analytic workloads


29: Loved the "benchmarking council" in air quotes!
	In introducinv the unique ID problem, the explanation is that
	in an RDBMS (or graph DB I think), you just materialize different
		tables, BUT, that makes analytics queries much harder.
		AND it makes most queries joins; we don't want that.

31: 2:28 (26 minutes; great timing)

	Ah -- could have color coded collaborative projects with solo
	projects

2:30 -- BRILLIANT TIMING

=-=-=-=

Questions:

Thomas -- are they separate or do they talk?
	Facebook is a great example (data is in MySQL; structure is in Tao)
	It sounds like the hybrid systems still have two representations

Sasha -- very well written proposal "pleasure to read"
	Goal was to compare the different representations:
		Where is the evaluation of the AdjList v CSR?

		EdgeKey does really well on insertions (no serialization ohead)
		Adjacency list: in-neighborhood is not currently materialized
	No time yet to benchmark the Split EdgeKey
	Short answer: Yes, I'm going to compare them

	What is in the preprocessing time? What are you really doing.
	[As the eval came late, we can do a much better job in explaining
	experiments in the written document; we'll get to a lot of this when
	we write the paper.]

Thomas:
	Is preprocessing comparison fair?

	Answer: GAPBS requires that you start with an edge-list file -- reading
	that in is the pre-processing time -- that is, you have to construct
	the in-memory structure.

	GraphCHI is designed to work out of core, so it stores things in
	a sorted sharding structure -- BUT -- you can use that persistent
	representation for the same algorithms, so it is time that can
	amortized across different analytics tasks, even if you do them
	days apart; GAPBS doesn't really let you do that.

	I think there are three different kinds of time:
	1. one-time cost (loading WT), warming a cache (amortized across
		multiple loads), running the algorithm

	TODO: Compare to Swanson system

=-=-=-

I think the way to think about benchmarking:

1. Assume that the entire property graph lives in a Database
	This requires a 1-time ingest cost -- whether to WT or to MySQL
	We can assume that this is relatively constant.

2. Now let's say that you want to run a single analytic benchmark:
	WT: Warm the cache (this is your current pre-processing time)

	GPS: Create edge list (extract data from an RDBMS)
		We are currently not measuring this, but we could --
			that might be a 1-time cost; it's comparable
			to the WT snapshot time.
		Create the in-memory representation (this is what you
			currently call preprocessing)

	Now you run the benchmark (algo time)

3. Now what if we want to run N analytic things, e.g., compute PR,
	compute CC, compute APSP

	WT warm: one-time cost
	GPS: Create in-memory rep: one-time cost

Short answer: I think there are one-time costs, every time costs; and
	"every time you restart a test"

Alex question:
	If we remap vertices that's a huge overhead on every query

	Are we not balancing the vertices by the number of edges?

	size of ID space -- if you use 64 bit IDs, you aren't going to
	run out.

Thomas:
	In the property graph model, what happens if you get a new type?
	With 64 bits, you can allocate trillions of slots to each type
	and STILL support lots of types

2:55 Phase 2

Thomas:	different queries might be run on different kinds of machines
	Does it make sense to benchmark systems on the LHS on big machines?

	[Ans: Databases typically run on large machines]

	On benchmark: many of the systems have different and weird APIs
	and have lots of idiosyncracies -- how are you going to deal with that?

	How do you decide if your query is not designed for the particular
	system?

	Ans: Basically using GAPBS -- people seem to be agreeing that GAPBS
	is a reasonable general purpose structure


	What is GAPBS ingest format? Edge list

	(You let Thomas say "way worse" than GAPBS -- that's not true)

	You can quantify the overhead of the API - that's exactly the
	right thing to do.

Profiling is useful, but it's not the big picture. Quantifying overheads
is good (don't want to discourage you, but you need to think of the big
picture)

Thomas:
	Why not compare to distributed (because those systems are dumb!)
	MIS: Might be interesting to do price-performance comparison to just
		get the distributed people out of the way.


Phase 2:

Feedback:
	Distinguish the contributions more clearly -- not popping out enough
		

